Capstone Coach 1: you're muted.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: you're still muted Jim yo yo take you off.
Jim Clark: No i'm not.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay okay.
Capstone Coach 1: looks like we've got a small but interested crowd tonight that's good.
Capstone Coach 1: we're actually not it's called a crowd because in the classroom and Houston there's only one student.
Capstone Coach 1: there's only one student so anything more than one is a growth and.
Capstone Coach 1: By the way, that once who told me he's not going to be there, next week, so I maybe I may see if I get a pass to stay at home next week I don't know we'll see.
Jim Clark: Well, Dr Jones I get my second inoculation on Monday so i'm i'm close to getting.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, good for you.
Capstone Coach 1: say I this is.
Capstone Coach 1: My sticker I get my SEC I go my second last Friday.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, you need something.
Jim Clark: For the side model i've asked, he said, well, did you get a sticker we get your.
Jim Clark: shot the guy said no, and she can so you should have got a sticker I said no, so my mother got a sticker and cheese 91 so well I don't know I guess that wasn't special.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, but I got a sticker the first time I went, but then the second one now they didn't get they were out of them I don't know.
But.
Jim Clark: I expected where we travel outside the US with our passport we're gonna need to have have our our our markings that we had the vaccinations.
Capstone Coach 1: Well, you get a card you get the little CDC card, and you know.
Capstone Coach 1: Which is easy law.
Jim Clark: I got the yellow card the book, you know, with all the inoculations.
Capstone Coach 1: Well they're going to give you, they should give you they gave me a CDC official card sign bye everybody.
Capstone Coach 1: That shows the dates that you got the vaccination on there now, the thing i'd like to ask you to do, though, if you have time and I did this to start taking your tip when are you taking it on Monday right.
Jim Clark: Yes, right it's.
Jim Clark: i'm actually attending a.
Jim Clark: Separate class and so i'll probably get mine around 330 or.
Capstone Coach 1: Four o'clock on Monday he what what i'd like you to do is start taking your temperature on Sunday.
Jim Clark: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Take your temperature on Sunday take your temperature on Monday morning and just before you get the shop.
Capstone Coach 1: And then keep taking your temperature after that for about 48 hours because I did that and there's something that that I saw that was really cool and then is after you get the second shot your temperature goes up.
Capstone Coach 1: By anywhere mine went up by almost a degree, it was like eight tenths or nine tenths of a degree or something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: And I realized what was going on is that the shot What it does is it causes your body to you know get excited and generate these antibodies and that shows up as a small increase in them your body temperature.
Capstone Coach 1: Now I didn't actually feel any hotter or anything like that I did feel sleepy the end right there when that temperature spiked that's what I was the sleepiness and.
Capstone Coach 1: The other thing is, and I didn't understand this, when I took the second one, I had asked questions you can take tylenol but don't take motor.
Capstone Coach 1: And I asked, I said why, why not take notes and she said, because it is suppresses the inflammation response.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, a promo for is an Anti inflammatory and that's exactly what they don't want they want you to get inflamed.
Capstone Coach 1: From these injections so yeah take your temperature and see if you can spot a rise about my mind peaked 24 hours after I had the shot approximately.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so goes up and it comes back down.
Jim Clark: I tried that have not been able to be interested that because i'm the first one in my.
Jim Clark: You know, family that's that's in the area and so i'm kind of lab rabbit we're going to burst.
Jim Clark: And so that might be worth.
Jim Clark: Doing you see if that's.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay yeah it's kind of fun, you can scan the fun that you know what your body's doing if you for you, if you're feeling low weird I mean when the when the temperature comes back down to normal, you know your past all that.
Capstone Coach 1: So don't be hallucinating about side effects, however, if your content goes up and stays up my goodness, then the day you'd be then nearly as lab read you're going to be exceptional you might might have some kind of a really, really exciting body going on there, there are no.
Capstone Coach 1: Let me show you guys, let me show you guys what I have.
Capstone Coach 1: So it makes it easy to take my temperature yeah really.
Jim Clark: We have we bought we bought those in game doll and our family members and and a curse yet we've gotten.
Capstone Coach 1: You when they first hit they were out there were sold out pretty quick but.
Capstone Coach 1: What I found with mine, by the way, it's not that accurate it's there's a level calibration shift with the real thermometer, however, if you're just looking for the change how much of an increase or decrease that you have is works fine you know.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Jim Clark: You know this, this is all going to be on the recording tomorrow tomorrow when the ability to the Aliens were talking about her medical history.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh yeah now.
Jim Clark: I don't care.
I don't do.
Capstone Coach 1: Disclosure disclosure a ventilator whether it is anyway So are we are we recording and is it says we are recording so when you hit.
Jim Clark: record had the red orbs flashing so that must mean or.
Capstone Coach 1: No yeah okay well we'll get started here first off other any process or procedural questions because outside of the homework.
Capstone Coach 1: Karen you must have a question.
Capstone Coach 1: I got your email that.
Capstone Coach 1: you're on mute, by the way.
Jim Clark: yeah I.
Jim Clark: I personally don't mean I just came to listen to the.
Jim Clark: kind of things are being talked about it, I have gotten my drip my drone to work and on computers, I did that for class and so once I turned in my.
Jim Clark: My capstone presentation, then i'll start really given the time.
Jim Clark: deserve to the homework so oh.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, did you check to see your drone whether your drone flies off of those Apps.
Jim Clark: So my so I haven't tried, the new code that you said yesterday, but with the code that you that you sent to us before we went on our one day spring break.
Jim Clark: I did fired up, it was flying behind me and spread around, and you know with a single you know wi fi connection, like you talked about so.
Jim Clark: I wanted to.
Jim Clark: satisfy that that will work.
Capstone Coach 1: That Alex I haven't.
Jim Clark: I haven't had time to try the.
Jim Clark: The the one with the video camera or the.
Jim Clark: You know, or they mode or the or the snap picture, but up but i'll do that probably on Friday.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, with this with my computer I can actually crank up the APP and fly the drone and stay on zoom because because my zoom connection is off of direct ethernet link.
Capstone Coach 1: And, and so i'm not using it, so I can use the wi fi for the drones are you guys no problem, so we can have some fun with that tonight, I do have I just uploaded the week eight assignment information, and let me show you a well, first of all let me.
Capstone Coach 1: share my screen I guess right.
Capstone Coach 1: So i'm going to share.
Capstone Coach 1: And i'm going to share that part of my screen tonight.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: well.
Capstone Coach 1: Hello.
Hello.
Jim Clark: Okay, take off.
Jim Clark: my microphone the product take away the ECHO.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah Well, no, that was Karen it was that going for some reason.
Fireman, Karen: i'm sorry that's.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay you're you're muted now Karen that's fine.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, let me go see I want to go.
Capstone Coach 1: What do you see on your screen, do you see pictures of yourself.
Jim Clark: So what I see is kind of a grid of about six or seven others.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah that's what I OK that's what I thought i'm going to change that picture Okay, so now what you should see is a spider type.
Capstone Coach 1: display this is.
Jim Clark: My guess is the code.
Capstone Coach 1: writers spider programming over here on the left.
Capstone Coach 1: Python programming anyway um, the first thing I want to do is take you back to.
Capstone Coach 1: A campus right here we are in the campus and if we go down into week eight in the on a campus.
Capstone Coach 1: right here you're not going to see a folder and it says we gave assignment so we'll go to the air and inside the week is assignment you actually have a PDF.
Capstone Coach 1: it's a couple pages of the assignment the assignment description and i'll show you that here in a moment, if you're using there are two assignments one you involving the drone and then one involving just.
Capstone Coach 1: Python threading.
Capstone Coach 1: You you can choose which one you would like to do.
Capstone Coach 1: If you're ambitious and have the time you feel free to do both I will give extra points, if you do both.
Capstone Coach 1: And now don't don't expect everybody to sign up for that option unless unless you have the ambition and the interest and the time to do it.
Capstone Coach 1: I think the threading option actually is kind of interesting we'll see how this works out so for the threading part I have some data and the D will well, first of all let's.
Capstone Coach 1: First things first right, let me show you the description of the assignment here, and this is available now on e campus so you can download it.
Capstone Coach 1: So option number one is titled drone programming there's a one page description of this option.
Capstone Coach 1: And you have three programs basically that you could use for this option, you have one called tello video with nothing after it now that the one called tello video with nothing effort i'm going to run that here in a moment, but.
Capstone Coach 1: This is the program you would run if you are running on a on a computer with a big screen like your desk desktop computer like the one that i'm on right now.
Capstone Coach 1: And then the other two, which is labeled which are labeled to tell video compact, and this either a win or a MAC depending upon which computer you're on.
Capstone Coach 1: These are designed to run off of computers that have smaller screens like laptops and so, for example, if you wanted to go outside.
Capstone Coach 1: and run your drone outside take some pictures outside which i'm going to try to do, maybe is i'm going to take my laptop out there and then the drone with me and run off the battery now.
Capstone Coach 1: The problem is today is a little bit windy now I didn't I didn't break out, I didn't go out there to see whether or not the drone would handle.
Capstone Coach 1: That kind of when it wasn't too serious, but the way you check them drone out for wind is just simply.
Capstone Coach 1: Go out, you know go to the spot, where you want to take off from take off up let it go about five feet and see if it's going to hold its position, it should all drones are designed to take off and hover.
Capstone Coach 1: And they should hold their position and the stronger they hold a position, the more resistant, they are to being picked up by the wind, this is a very small light drones so i'm afraid.
Capstone Coach 1: A little bit afraid about that the other The other thing that you have to be aware of is that, in general, as you go higher up the wind gets stronger, so if you're seeing you're seeing issues at five feet well, you probably won't just bland and go indoors or something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: But i'm curious to see how this drone behaves and moderate wins, you know today we had about 15 to 20 I think on the on the scale, which is not bad at all, and of course this is this is such a small inexpensive drone if you do have a problem with the wind just land and go get it.
Capstone Coach 1: don't fly over your your neighbor's backyard, by the way, until and if, and until you verify that you don't have a win problem right the other problem is, you can have it's just.
Capstone Coach 1: Not too likely really you should always keep the drone within visual sight.
Capstone Coach 1: Of you right So if you were to fly up and around and behind your in the front yard now you fly over your House and you go into the backyard well all of a sudden, you just put the building.
Capstone Coach 1: between you and that drone you can't see it now on these camera on the bigger drones you can get away with that their signal.
Capstone Coach 1: The radio signals are strong enough to say go through one house, but on this little guy i'm not sure that radio signals strong enough to to go from your laptop through the House and talk to the drone children come back around.
Capstone Coach 1: and come back Google go up a little bit of bit and come back over here So be careful of that if you go buying houses or hills or trees, you may lose the signal.
Capstone Coach 1: And you'll see that in the screen because and then here's the abbott's on the on the screen here the little video is going to be in your bottom right.
Capstone Coach 1: And this little video will start to go out fade out get them noise in it you'll probably also, at the same time see and I Python window.
Capstone Coach 1: A whole bunch of error message is related to the video saying no frame no frame know frame yo you probably seen those when you first start this up, you often get those no frame.
Capstone Coach 1: of comments, which is it's it's waiting to to really get the camera warmed up and operating correctly, though that's normal, by the way, but when you're flying around you don't want to see that too much.
Capstone Coach 1: Because that's an indication that you have a radio signal from a possibly radio signal problem.
Capstone Coach 1: So, good luck with all of that now the other thing that I wanted to mention and I mentioned in the last night about this is that.
Capstone Coach 1: You have you can have connection problems and that arises from a whole variety of things, but at any rate, the first thing that I do on my MAC is I open up the.
Capstone Coach 1: This little box, you know you're you're a MAC user you're familiar with it, and then I open up the the wi fi connection right here.
Capstone Coach 1: there's my wi fi connection, you can see that it's turned off at the moment I don't I don't use it.
Capstone Coach 1: But when i'm going to fly a drone I turn this on, and then the name of the drone the signature of the drone will appear in this little window here.
Capstone Coach 1: And that says, then that i'm talking to the computer, so I always make sure that this is this is strong and online.
Capstone Coach 1: Another thing and one thing that can happen, by the way, is.
Capstone Coach 1: When you turn on the drone after after little bit it may shut off automatically it's designed to conserve power.
Capstone Coach 1: And, in some cases it'll show off 15 seconds if it doesn't get any kind of a message or response.
Capstone Coach 1: It may shut off within 15 seconds, so you can lose the connection that way as well, so normally number one I checked to make sure that the drones name is in this little wi fi box number two.
Capstone Coach 1: I checked to see that there are lights the lights are flashing on the drone it should normally it's a quick flash yellow sometimes it's a red.
Capstone Coach 1: Red indicating that there are some potential problems with the drone when quick flash yellow means.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm sitting here waiting for you to tell me to do something, and if it does, if you don't give it some instruction within a approximately 15 seconds, it may, it may decide to go to sleep shut off on you so check look at those lights.
Capstone Coach 1: And the other thing is that sometimes the Colonel the Python Colonel gets a little confused if you're if you have multiple.
Capstone Coach 1: connections, so you connect with the drone and then you shut it down, you can enter the draw every time you shut down the APP.
Capstone Coach 1: There are some things that are supposed to happen there is a stop button, if you see it on the bottom right hand corner that's the proper way to shut it down now if you were to crash, and it just shuts down by itself or something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: Then you have disconnected the drone but the drone hasn't really caught up with you, and in particular the the communications at the drone has some that with the camera the video things get a little confused there, and when that happens.
Capstone Coach 1: You have to reset the Colonel and so that's another third thing you would do is if you're having trouble connecting is reset the Colonel and the fourth thing stop and start the drone physically that is turned off the power if you if you turn the little.
Capstone Coach 1: The power on off here if it's if you if you click on it it'll power up and then, if you click click on second time it'll power down so it's it works pretty easily that way.
Capstone Coach 1: um yeah there's his little chrome.
Karen Fireman: What is your question per second Dr Jones.
Capstone Coach 1: uh huh.
Karen Fireman: um you said in the instructions I just read that you want us to do, several different uploads on can we upload like all the pictures and the right up in one upload and then.
Karen Fireman: Then you're saying a second upload it doesn't erase the first one right the second upload would be the video is that is that what you're getting at the video and all the files is to kind of too much.
Capstone Coach 1: I would rather have each of the video each file uploaded separately on reason is it's just easier to review it.
Karen Fireman: Okay, what if I put the pictures inside my word document that's what I actually did do.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh that's.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, then you're okay yeah yeah that's fine that's fine.
Karen Fireman: Okay, so put the pictures in the word document.
Karen Fireman: And then I have the video separately, so you don't want to files, you want to uploads instead of two files.
Capstone Coach 1: No, no, no two files are fine.
Karen Fireman: Okay, so I can put two files in one upload.
Capstone Coach 1: Right well.
Karen Fireman: Okay that's easy that's usually easy.
Capstone Coach 1: What do you mean yeah exactly it's very easy when it's when you say upload you mean yeah upload as as in the assignment upload.
Karen Fireman: yeah yeah it's sort of sounded like you wanted for different assignment uploads no.
Capstone Coach 1: No yeah okay.
Capstone Coach 1: that's Thank you so.
Capstone Coach 1: On that issue, the oh and.
Capstone Coach 1: What i'm trying to avoid or discouraged.
Capstone Coach 1: And, and a lot of people got really are really good at the state zip they put everything in the zip file and didn't want to upload right got a problem with, that is, and I, you know I don't want to complain too much on last.
Capstone Coach 1: The problem is, I have to download the zip file, I have to unzip it then I have to go find those files and they open each you see you see it just takes me about twice as much time to go through your material.
Capstone Coach 1: Now I can do that i'm willing to do that, but I do have like 50 some students here, so I try to minimize the time i'm.
Capstone Coach 1: I need to use for unzipping files and things like that, so I prefer that instead of zipping everything up and loading up as a bundle.
Capstone Coach 1: That has to be downloaded is to upload the if you have multiple files that you want to show, please upload them separately, instead of putting them into a SIP and that's fine that'll work.
Karen Fireman: Okay, one other question I had, and this is only reason I got on.
Karen Fireman: This i'm pretty much done with this and that is, it was kind of cool I enjoyed, this is very cool I did have struggled last night for quite a while until I finally I don't know I think was the connections like you were saying, but.
Karen Fireman: Are you.
Karen Fireman: Are you going to tell us about sockets and maybe next week or something, because I was kind of curious about them and I like I have always kind of wondered don't know much about it so i'm.
Capstone Coach 1: Sure sockets our communication paths between one computer and another, so when you're in your web browser you and you ask you send the URL out.
Capstone Coach 1: That URL gets sent to another computer that that creates a socket there's a connection between you and that other computer over which is being transmitted.
Capstone Coach 1: You know the webpage and when actually when you transmit a webpage there are several files that get transmitted not just.
Capstone Coach 1: one page, you know all the photographs are separate the links and everything like that so there's a lot of communication that goes on.
Capstone Coach 1: So a socket is basically a communication bath with an assigned number and name in your in your computer code now on the drone there is a definite there is a socket between the camera and.
Capstone Coach 1: The computer that's in your drone, and so there is a small communication path that the drone sets up with the camera and it talks to the camera on that path.
Capstone Coach 1: And then, in the code that's written for controlling the drone them the code that's written to show the video that capture the video actually uses a socket to the camera to capture that video.
Capstone Coach 1: Because this has to be done in parallel with everything else that's going on and like it's a different thread so threads usually have used to often use sockets to grab.
Capstone Coach 1: streams streaming information videos and photographs and things like that so it's it's.
Capstone Coach 1: There in me in Python there is a library called socket and you can create sockets connections with other computers over wi fi or bluetooth.
Capstone Coach 1: Any form of communication or over the Internet and a socket, then, is a special type of a connection where you authenticate the connection of front.
Capstone Coach 1: And then every time, then you can just go at it, you know, can they have streaming information you don't necessarily have to send a password every time you owe us for a response Okay, but.
Capstone Coach 1: that's kind of that's kind of what kind of what it is.
Capstone Coach 1: And socket programming usually you get involved with that if you're doing what we're doing now, which is.
Capstone Coach 1: Programming machine and you want to transmit information between that machine and your computer or something like that so.
Capstone Coach 1: Some years ago, I worked on a medical device, it was a I think I mentioned this, it was a device to monitor people while they sleep.
Capstone Coach 1: And detect if they are going to have a seizure, these are people who have a history of medical seizures and the idea is that alarm would go off somewhere and somebody would check on the person child usually.
Capstone Coach 1: To see what the weather there Okay, you know if they're having a seizure and things like that So there you have sockets and you have threads going on, because you have continuous monitoring on the on the patient itself and then what is being.
Capstone Coach 1: sent still from the monitor the armband is streamed to a computer and that computer than analyzes that stream and.
Capstone Coach 1: will then trigger an alarm which might result to the communication going out to another computer or telephone or something like that, so you have the main socket, there is the connection between the monitor and this, this would be able something like a bluetooth connection.
Capstone Coach 1: And so you have the monitor with a bluetooth connection to the computer that's going to be over his communication line that would be a socket and.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, so if you're if you ever get involved in programs things like that which I think is a lot of fun to sort of visualize what's going on that you'll be doing the flooding and socket programming things like.
Karen Fireman: Thank you so much, thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: So.
Capstone Coach 1: let's see alright so that's option number one is you're going to use one of those three Apps maybe all I mean hey if you want to do more.
Capstone Coach 1: than what what i'm asking you to do here, feel free to do that, so if you want to make multiple videos and put them together or edit them.
Capstone Coach 1: I have software on my computer that I use for that you there are several software systems, some of them are free, some most of them are not that allow you to edit video, and you can do things like combine the video with audio and and you can add music and things like that so.
Capstone Coach 1: Maybe in my solution that I love for this assignment i'll do something like that, and I use a software system called temptation and camp Asia, then allows my last video and audio editing.
Capstone Coach 1: there's something called the front end I think it's called or I think it's called front, the on this from adobe that also allies very popular with people that are editing videos.
Capstone Coach 1: But.
Capstone Coach 1: And they're getting better and better all the time.
Capstone Coach 1: So the only the minimum requirement heaters three to five photos make sure that's working well that's that's the third the button right here, the one the top one at least one on one video this one right here.
Capstone Coach 1: And, as I say, if you have the ability to edit these things feel free to do that.
Capstone Coach 1: Use us that that software and IT, by the way, if you start the video here, and then you do not stop it.
Capstone Coach 1: For example, last night in class I was flying the video and taking a video you know find the drone taking a video and he crashed well yeah I got.
Capstone Coach 1: I wasn't thinking and I didn't click stop here, and if you don't do that, then it doesn't close off the video file and it's difficult or impossible to open it.
Capstone Coach 1: So if you record a video, you will see the file the file will be there, but if you can't open the file chances are you didn't click stop.
Capstone Coach 1: On the video so be aware of that, I it's I I do it i've done it more than once, because I just forget or just something going on, like a crashed or something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: And then, when you will close down the APP, the best thing to do is click the STOP button in the lower right hand side because what that does is it actually breaks those camera links the video links and shuts them down in a fashion that doesn't confuse the wi fi connection.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: So I think that i'm going to go outside as soon as I can get some nice weather and the wind is supposed to be dying dying down a little bit here.
Capstone Coach 1: Then the odds, the second option is a little different it's threatening.
Capstone Coach 1: And for that we're going to use some data that you've seen before, this is the old oil production data we look at this during our lecture I have uploaded a clean version of that file.
Capstone Coach 1: into the week eight assignment area I don't think there's any changes there but.
Capstone Coach 1: There I the one of the versions of this file had some missing data and advance so that I wanted to make sure this wasn't as far as I can tell there no missing data I ran the file today no problem at all, so the assignment is to create three different threats.
Capstone Coach 1: In one thread you're going to use linear regression and stepwise to fit a model to predict log of cumulative production.
Capstone Coach 1: And the other thread you're going to use a random forest to do the same thing and then in the third a neural network to do the same thing so basically you're doing three model fits.
Capstone Coach 1: Each one is going to be done in a separate thread and the printing from those threads needs to be done using the logging technique that we saw last night.
Capstone Coach 1: And because with the logging technique, then you can easily look at the output and tell what where this information is coming from you know so come from thread one, two or three now i'm going to I did also upload a program.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: Well, the name of the program is oil production without threading.
Capstone Coach 1: dot P wise So if you look on here it's right here oil production without threads stop P, why this is the Program.
Capstone Coach 1: And what's your what you can do is use the take this program and then manipulate it to to produce to do the same thing that the program does except US threats it might have been a while, since you've done this kind of modeling so.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm going to show you something here.
Capstone Coach 1: First i'm going to do is reset the curtain, which is going to clear off.
Capstone Coach 1: The screen on the right hand side.
Capstone Coach 1: And I have the program loaded here, and this is in spider now you'll see a bunch of imports up here import logging.
Capstone Coach 1: want to do that from time import time that's the procedure you can use to actually time how long, he should these things take so one of the parts of the assignment, I asked for the total amount of time and then the time for each thread how long did each thread actually wrong.
Capstone Coach 1: In addition, you're going to see advanced analytics coming back here and dance analytics dot neural network and then advanced analytic dot replacement computing code and so forth, and so on.
Capstone Coach 1: So if you're going to use this you need to have and use your environment that has advanced analytics in the environment, now.
Capstone Coach 1: In during last summer I think we call that Stat 656 or some variation of that So if you look when you start up anaconda you want you want to look for an environment with that name.
Capstone Coach 1: The.
Capstone Coach 1: The threading library and the time library and the logging library, I believe, are all automatically installed and anaconda so in the show you here in my anaconda.
Capstone Coach 1: right here and I don't know if you can see it or not, but i'm using the environment and it's labeled Stat.
Capstone Coach 1: 656 macro s and if I go and look at the Environment here, you should see.
Capstone Coach 1: three.
Capstone Coach 1: And we just.
Capstone Coach 1: No my bad I don't see.
Capstone Coach 1: Why not hang on.
Capstone Coach 1: I haven't tested that yet that's part of what i'm looking for here so.
Capstone Coach 1: It may not show because it may be hidden in there somewhere.
Capstone Coach 1: I don't see.
Capstone Coach 1: This seems to happen with anaconda where you you wanna you want to look at a different environment and spider is open, and so it won't let me change over to that, so what i'm going to do is i'm going to quit spider right now and come back to it and a little bit and.
Capstone Coach 1: Now it's stuck there so i'm just going to quit anaconda the seems to be the quickest way to resolve this issue and then restart anaconda and it will come back and then.
Capstone Coach 1: we'll be able to you may want to, if you have your computer on yon you might want to check what we're going through right now, if you're going to if you're interested in doing option to.
Capstone Coach 1: You might want to check to see check out your environment so we're here we are in and i'm going to look at the base environment, this is the environment that's installed with anaconda.
Capstone Coach 1: There is a library here called thread pool i'm not sure that's the one that is going to work and then there's another library called logging that that is used in this process.
Capstone Coach 1: and
Capstone Coach 1: I don't see that either okay so here's here's what I would do is I would go I would open up the environment that has advanced analytics and it says i'm going to do right now and then.
Capstone Coach 1: it's still.
Capstone Coach 1: Doing its thing over you okay there it is and then i'm going to go i'm going to go back and i'm going to open up spider.
Capstone Coach 1: This.
Capstone Coach 1: There we go.
Capstone Coach 1: we're back and then now i'm going to go to the iPod iPhone window and just see if it's there i'm going to type in import threading.
Capstone Coach 1: It took it so and i'm going to type in import logging elbow double G I n G it took that as well, so I think you're good if you go and open up your stats 656 library.
Capstone Coach 1: You should be able to import threading and import logging and also import time it's a standard library, these are system level libraries and so.
Capstone Coach 1: I think they are actually embedded in the Python install when you go through that and that's maybe why they're not showing up in that in that list of libraries, or they could be in the library list under a different name.
Capstone Coach 1: But.
Capstone Coach 1: So this co at any rate, if you take this code that that send the weekend assignment and you run it.
Capstone Coach 1: Which i'm going to do now.
Capstone Coach 1: You see, on the right hand side.
Capstone Coach 1: You shouldn't get any errors, if you get any errors that may be an indication that there's a package missing so.
Capstone Coach 1: There we go so here, this is the the ends advanced analytics output, where reads the file and checks for missing values and outliers and you can see, there are not.
Capstone Coach 1: Now, the main reason to use the sad dense analytics package there's two reasons number one, it creates the nominal column, that the mom of the columns that you need for the nominal variables.
Capstone Coach 1: There are two nominal variables in here there on the bottom of the list operator and county and so you have to do a lot of one hand on one hot encoding to create those variables.
Capstone Coach 1: As you can see the program is taking a little while and that's intentional, I want to I want the threads to spend some time doing something, and right now what's happening is it's working on the neural network.
Capstone Coach 1: which has 30% tron Center and the number of iterations are 9000 you can't see them on the outside here but.
Capstone Coach 1: It actually runs up against the top maximum number of iterations on the neuro fitting the neural network 9000 of them, and you can see, the average squared error here is 0.2244.
Capstone Coach 1: You should get a value, similar to that there are a total of 1200 and 81 waits in this neural network so it's a large network to hidden layers.
Capstone Coach 1: And yeah it takes a little while and now it's jumping into the random forest it's using a fitting a random forest using the depth of 30 that ran little faster.
Capstone Coach 1: But it is a big random forest and you could see it to the average squared error years smaller point oh four and now it's going through stepwise progression and fitting the regression model.
Capstone Coach 1: To get the similar sort of information and it's done so to run this right now, it takes a total they took all my machine here a total of 116 seconds so in the very top of the code well it's actually not at the top to go it's in line.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh line 58 right here and make this a little bit larger.
Capstone Coach 1: So you see, in line number 58 it says start is equal to time and then you know open close parenthesis, and that captures the current clock time on the computer.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you can then get the time at any later point and look at the difference to see how long this thing took so.
Capstone Coach 1: By the way, this is happening there's an important statement that period says, from time in port time in though that's so odd one, but if you say, from time import time, then the time is a function.
Capstone Coach 1: And you can see here time open PR and close PR and that's the function and that actually returns, the clock time on your computer and then at the very bottom.
Capstone Coach 1: there's another one that says stop equals time and then I take the difference between the start and stop and that printed out, then, is the total execution time for the Program.
Capstone Coach 1: So you'll want to do this for each threat when the threat gets kicked started starts you, you want to clock in.
Capstone Coach 1: And then, when it gets ready to clock out you won't take the time there and then in your law, using the logging instead of the print.
Capstone Coach 1: Using login instead of print announced, how long your that particular thread took to fit that particular model.
Capstone Coach 1: So if you're wondering what that model what the parameters of that model should be please use the parameters that you find in this code.
Capstone Coach 1: So, for example, stepwise the start and stop in and upgrade here yeah is 0.1 0.1 that controls, how many variables ultimately will come into your model or be excluded.
Capstone Coach 1: In the case of the random forest.
Capstone Coach 1: Here it is maximum 9000 iterations the random state seed through the random number generator is 12345.
Capstone Coach 1: And the solver, which is the optimization routine is lb fgs the value for alpha, which is a penalty value for the optimization function is 0.5.
Capstone Coach 1: If you change any of us you'll get a different numbers, by the way right activation is 10 our attention tan age and it says the hidden layer sizes is 20 comma 10, meaning that the first layer has 22 second care delirious 10 you know that kind of thing.
Capstone Coach 1: Now the regression and so.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah that's it so you'll you'll be able to basically in search you i'm what i'm going to do is take this code.
Capstone Coach 1: And re label it with threading instead of without and i'm going to crap three functions thread one thread to thread three and i'm going to put the neural network in one random forests in water, you know.
Capstone Coach 1: And then have the main code after that actually kick off these thread and monitor the threads and things like that so be able to do that that's option two.
Capstone Coach 1: And if you like, I see if you have the time and the interest in doing this, please feel free to pick up some extra points doing the option one and two, there be a call alright any questions.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay.
Capstone Coach 1: Any concerns Jim you okay.
Capstone Coach 1: you're the only one, the video on so i'm going to pick on you, you are muted, though.
Jim Clark: So just I know you're probably going to talk about this.
Jim Clark: Expansion of the of the Multi threading is Is this something that.
Jim Clark: People have.
Jim Clark: important for our the operations may detecting things happening rather machine sitting in its that is that the techniques, they use a certain channels of data simultaneously or is Is this a special.
Jim Clark: Special thing i'm just.
Capstone Coach 1: i'm thinking, no, no, you do so, it is a common practice let's put it that you what you get a sentence, a good a good example.
Capstone Coach 1: So let's suppose that once a day you want to do a data analysis well what you want to do you're going to have to have a program so maybe several programs that collect the data and send it somewhere, each one of those could be a separate program or separate thread.
Capstone Coach 1: You could have one program and then within that one program you could have a thread where those threads are actually responsible to running 24 seven.
Capstone Coach 1: and collecting data and then, when the clock strikes 12 or some other time it takes the data that they have and sends it to a file.
Capstone Coach 1: And then the main program is looking for that file data after a certain time and then pulls it all together, and does the analysis so.
Capstone Coach 1: You could construct one program where within that one program you have several threads that are doing different things at different times.
Capstone Coach 1: that's one way to handle that now the other way to handle it in the is to say, have multiple programs.
Capstone Coach 1: I have a program that runs this data of a program for this data, you know and those programs might be on different computers and then they would all send the data at a certain time to some central location.
Capstone Coach 1: The problem with that is that the if there is a computer at the main program is monitoring is monitoring what's what they're doing.
Capstone Coach 1: And it needs to monitor what they're doing if they're separate like that they the there may be a communication problem.
Capstone Coach 1: So, if this guy is running on a different computer and that computer goes down how am I going to know about it over here on this other computer and you may not know about it, oh I don't see the file what happened well yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, so if it's all in one burning off of one computer in one program, then you have better.
Capstone Coach 1: integrity as security is anybody going to hack and they're going to have to get into this particular computer which by the way, is hard and it's got a firewall and all that sort of thing.
Capstone Coach 1: As opposed to having it distributed across the network in some way you could be a problem, so.
Capstone Coach 1: There, there are reasons to do that now, of course, the most common application is when you're you're controlling machinery.
Capstone Coach 1: or you're monitoring machinery, the office operating 24 hours a day, and you, you want to monitor that real time.
Capstone Coach 1: And then send out an alert and respond to an alert if something doesn't look right with that machinery so mean.
Capstone Coach 1: It could be a natural gas pump or something like that which are high risk activities where if there's something out of wax bad really bad things going to happen, it could be an oil platform or other oil.
Capstone Coach 1: pump which is similar sort of thing you want a computer to monitor those oftentimes you'll have a main program is the monitor.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you'll have a separate thread for each pump or each well and then the main program will be watching those threads for messages and also sending information out to them about.
Capstone Coach 1: You need to adjust the flow rate or close the floor, you know, so if you are working with equipment that is that is important than runs 24 seven you're probably going to be seeing threads inside the code.
Capstone Coach 1: So now, you know what threads are, and that was the main purpose of this whole discussion is so that if you're working in a company you're the manager of the company and somebody starts using this jargon you kind of know what you're talking Oh, a thread is just an embedded.
Another Program.
Capstone Coach 1: it's it's a technique for multi processing, you know running several problems side simultaneously independent while they can talk to each other and it's a special to sort of construction yeah.
Jim Clark: Now, thinking about our conversation beginning.
Jim Clark: Salaries hours and then look and see if there is some sort of temperature are many temperature majoring that I could put on my watch.
Jim Clark: It won't that won't have to keep reminding myself, they will do it, and then before you use it.
Capstone Coach 1: You know if you have a if you have one of those I watches apple I think they do have that.
Jim Clark: yeah they've got it for the.
Jim Clark: heart and.
Jim Clark: I haven't I haven't tried it for temperature so i'll i'll.
Jim Clark: yeah program that might be interesting.
Capstone Coach 1: check it out, if you find something, let me know I.
Capstone Coach 1: am a little leery of those things I don't know whether they're accurate and.
Capstone Coach 1: we're talking about about an eight tenths of a degree change in temperature and so, but that's what be the way to do it if you had a body like a fitbit or something like that, where you you're monitoring your temperature that'd be that'd be great at the sacrum you know.
Jim Clark: yeah you would see a break, of the trend, it may not be a bit and maybe right.
Capstone Coach 1: you're looking you're looking, you have to take several points in a row and you're because you're looking for a little uptick and little tech, you know you'll see that you see that little pattern.
Capstone Coach 1: is very subtle.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, so if we're not if we're okay tonight, then I we can close this recording down.
Capstone Coach 1: Before it to go anywhere, though Karen any questions.
Karen Fireman: For.
Karen Fireman: me no i'm good Thank you so much, Sir appreciate it, this has been this has been really fun and.
Capstone Coach 1: Thank you for explaining so I really appreciate you.
Capstone Coach 1: Sending that other photograph of your family it's a very nice picture amazing picture really Thank you have did you have a professional take that picture, how to do that picture.
Karen Fireman: Actually, my mom's aid opened my phone and took it right, there are the.
Capstone Coach 1: Study yeah.
Karen Fireman: yeah that's amazing yeah you took out really nicely I.
Karen Fireman: Actually, actually put something in there because her Walker was visible and I didn't want it to be visible, so I had to kind of block it with something.
Karen Fireman: yeah yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: We all get to that stage where we might need a Walker so.
Karen Fireman: I know, but if you're lucky you're lucky yeah.
Capstone Coach 1: Exactly yeah.
Karen Fireman: Very cool Thank you so much.
Capstone Coach 1: Say Oh, thank you for everyone, thank you, everybody for joining us nice to see people here and I hope to see more maybe in the future okay guys.
tonight.
Nathan Lippert: One quick question.
Nathan Lippert: Is that.
Capstone Coach 1: Nathan, yes, sir.
Nathan Lippert: hey I was just wondering, in terms of maybe some guidance around project topics.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh yes.
Capstone Coach 1: Yes, yes, yes project topics I haven't had a chance to go through this yet because i've been kind of busy here but i'm going to do that and Tara have a they'll be part of the course discussion next Tuesday.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, but now you had, I think you had a question about.
Capstone Coach 1: You had if you sent me a question you sent me an email.
Nathan Lippert: Right yeah I was looking for some guidance, just like in terms of what I could look at as a potential projects so that I.
Capstone Coach 1: yeah I think if you take a look at the homework well okay.
Capstone Coach 1: To me an easy thing to do would be to look at the homework problems and imagine some variation of that.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, and take that on as your project so, for example, we did a lot with the API cloud right so but we didn't do it all, so you might take another.
Capstone Coach 1: One of the things that it's really cool in the cloud that we didn't talk about yet is they have a vision API and inside there are actually several different vision api's now the reason we haven't talked about it just yet as i'm trying to figure out.
Capstone Coach 1: Where the programming is on this.
Capstone Coach 1: They actually have some Apps that will to image recognition for photographs and video.
Capstone Coach 1: What they what the SAP actually does is pretty scary pretty amazing to me it'll take a photograph it'll it will highlight every human being in that photograph.
Capstone Coach 1: And then it analyzes their expression and gives each of that each person in that photograph a score of how happy, they are or unhappy.
Capstone Coach 1: How spooky is that oh.
Capstone Coach 1: You know I could see some applications for that right so.
Capstone Coach 1: I can see why it's running around with a little camera oh you're unhappy today what's your problem.
Capstone Coach 1: Right something like that.
So.
Capstone Coach 1: I would that's what I would do now an easier, one would be some of the translation things we've done where you're looking at translating from one language to another and and speaking it and so forth, and so on.
Capstone Coach 1: You you might you might look at some variations of those those assignments and build an APP you know, to do something around that.
Capstone Coach 1: It might be who's for specific languages or like English to Spanish is a very popular one or or you know English to Chinese and back again you'll those would be very popular kind of things okay so and then the drone business, you can do that too, as a project.
Capstone Coach 1: You could think of Well, I can tell you right now, one of the one of the programs okay.
Capstone Coach 1: When it comes to drone programming there's a whole bunch of cool projects that you can do we're just scratching the surface here.
Capstone Coach 1: So one of the things you can do is the is alter the the the gooey to a little bit little program a little bit so that a person could plan a route route for the drone so, in other words you're going to go to point a to Point B to point C and then come back.
Capstone Coach 1: All right now that's not too difficult to do right now on the drone there is a little button called go and you have X, Y Z you said X, Y Z press go and it goes to that point.
Capstone Coach 1: So that's like one direct point kind of thing so imagine the, though, that you could create an APP or have a different.
Capstone Coach 1: system where you upload a file with a series of points, and then it actually controls the drone to go to these different points.
Capstone Coach 1: In addition, there are some there are a whole bunch of drone commands that are not in that code, one of the drone commands it's called curve xyz curve.
Capstone Coach 1: And what it does is it's like you, you give the drone two points and it it first goes if it makes a curve between those two points and it actually flies that curve.
Capstone Coach 1: Now I haven't tried that out, it sounds like a lot of fun, but you know I haven't done that, so you could you could think about.
Capstone Coach 1: You, you know that this is simulating what has what happens in commercial applications, I mean if they want to go and search for somebody in the woods.
Capstone Coach 1: There and they're not going to fly the drone and that can know they're going to write down a route and they're going to write a route down to go over here and run this line and then run this line and run this line.
Capstone Coach 1: And it's going to be very, very methodical search and so that would be all done on the Program.
Capstone Coach 1: When it's not too difficult to actually write the program then to follow those lines actually the Apps that they sell with the drone usually will have that ability if it's a search and rescue application, the most likely have that ability already programmed into the system.
Capstone Coach 1: The other thing you know you could do is.
Capstone Coach 1: You could have the drone respond to physical physical symbols.
Capstone Coach 1: So, for example, you could you could you could tell her own you can program the drone to look at the camera, and if you see me do this, that means take off if you see me do this, it means lamp.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh wow yeah, so there are some examples on Google Google tello.
Capstone Coach 1: image response commands or something like that, but.
Capstone Coach 1: I can find it for you there's one guy who wrote some code to do this and it looked like fun and the other thing you could do with the drone is, you could say, I want to take a picture of my tree.
Capstone Coach 1: But what I wanted, so I want to program a drone so that it flies around the tree in a circle.
Capstone Coach 1: But all the time is flying it's keeping the camera pointed at that tree.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay well.
Capstone Coach 1: that's actually a standard def and most drones call the circle and so here's the tree right here's the drunk so the drone is going to going to slowly go around the tree and as it goes around the tree it's turning so that the camera is always pointed directly at the tree see that.
Capstone Coach 1: So programming, that you would use a little bit of geometry.
Capstone Coach 1: How do I do that, and so there are ways to do that, and of course there's code, you could find some examples of people doing that.
Capstone Coach 1: The other.
Nathan Lippert: Someone who was who was using them like.
Nathan Lippert: you're talking on or residential or commercial buildings, and so they would fly, and they would kind of look for the the points on the building that was.
Capstone Coach 1: Yes, exactly you can do you can run over the roof and inspect the roof right in fact there are companies that are doing that for a price right now, so you can buy.
Capstone Coach 1: You can buy the drone in the software that will will do that specific thing is, I think it's sky do again sky do is specialized in that sort of thing because they have this drone that they.
Capstone Coach 1: fly has sensors up down left right are all over the things so that deserve it actually flies itself and won't run into a tree.
Capstone Coach 1: So yeah, and so they write a play wrote wrote a program where it'll go and do a three dimensional inspection of a house and it'll fly around it take photographs every so often.
Capstone Coach 1: Hundreds of photographs and then there's another 3D software 3D software that will take those photographs and actually build.
Capstone Coach 1: A computer model, a 3D computer model of your house or bridge or whatever it is, whatever the structure is that you know they want to look at now in the simple case is such as to how the housing thing for roof, and so.
Capstone Coach 1: You can see there are there more I think you're going to find more and more companies that that's what they do, they sell a service to come over and do an inspection.
Capstone Coach 1: of a building or your House, or what have you and then give you a report as to the condition of your roof, or what have you.
Capstone Coach 1: And maybe they would do this every three hour years or maybe after a major storm or something like that that might do it and.
Capstone Coach 1: Oh, you got a problem here call the insurance company right so most of us are not done not in dead venture some to go climb on the roof so.
Capstone Coach 1: Are we going to wait until this and see the water grip into the ceiling probably.
Capstone Coach 1: But if you have a drone you can go up there, and actually check it out and see if there's anything obvious with shingles or fall off things like that, so the drunk thing, there are lots of little projects that you could think about to do.
Capstone Coach 1: And then, what the other, the other, so I think we could come up with some ideas as well, and then there are things to come when we're going to start talking about.
Capstone Coach 1: charisse and tensorflow I hope next Tuesday that's the plan and that gets into a whole bunch of things, having to do with neural image recognition and voice recognition so we're gonna be taking a look at that basically tensorflow and cares they are, they were produced by.
Capstone Coach 1: I think it's Google yeah and the it's basically a large they they use they have a special kind of neural network.
Capstone Coach 1: That allows you to build new advanced neural neural neural network models that are super good for imagery for pattern recognition.
Capstone Coach 1: So, in a situation where you have a photograph and you want to recognize what's on the photograph This is great it works like a champ.
Capstone Coach 1: And so we'll be doing some of that, and the same thing with voice recognition and and text you know understand what's being said in text over text or something like that, and can work, work that as well.
Capstone Coach 1: So yeah and that'll be fun and also charisse and tensorflow are very, very popular nowadays in terms of programming in Python.
Capstone Coach 1: So my my intention here with but by the time you get through this course is you're going to have several new things on your on your resume you know you're going to know you're going to put threading and you've had experience with that jack.
Capstone Coach 1: Some experience with drone programming okay you're going to have checked with that you're going to have experience with the Google cloud.
Capstone Coach 1: you've had quite a bit actually quite a bit of introduction to Google cloud, I would say that many of you could at this point.
Capstone Coach 1: You know, there are about 100 different api's on the Google cloud, including you know what are they really good at search engine.
Capstone Coach 1: So their search engine is on the Google cloud you could create your own custom made search engine for particular application for a company, maybe it's a medical search engine, for example, or or financial search engine or something like that.
Capstone Coach 1: At this point, you know how to get started, you know about credentials, you may already have your credentials every one of these things works off the credentials, it seems.
Capstone Coach 1: And then you just have to go and look at the API is few examples, and probably figure it out pretty quickly yourself well.
Capstone Coach 1: Maybe not quickly, but it might take you a few days of work but it's not it's not going to be that hard for you to do that.
Capstone Coach 1: And then we're going to have time with charisse and tensorflow, which is very, very popular sort of programming they'll be on your resume as well.
Capstone Coach 1: So there'll be there'll be several different things that you could put on your resume I think that would if you're interested in creating starting a new career.
Capstone Coach 1: Maybe going to California or or Boston or some place where they do, they have a lot of the sort of things going on.
Capstone Coach 1: By the way, i'm from California originally I love California, but as for visit anything right now it's just too it's too crazy too expensive my son's all live out there.
Capstone Coach 1: A lot of my friends are still out there and I go I definitely go out there, once in a while to visit love that i'd rather be in Texas at this point.
Capstone Coach 1: or Mexico okay so we'll i'll let y'all go and see you then on Tuesday, maybe.
Nathan Lippert: Thanks Dr Johnson.
Capstone Coach 1: Thank you.
Capstone Coach 1: bye bye thank.
Jim Clark: You.
Capstone Coach 1: What was that Jeff oh your book dropped out.
Jim Clark: I know I said, thank you will see you Tuesday.
Capstone Coach 1: Okay, all right bye bye.